Ed Davis, 2/2015

#Getting and Cleaning Data - Class Project


###Background
-------------------------------
The purpose of this project is to demonstrate collection and cleaning a data set. The goal was to prepare a tidy data set that can be used for later analysis.  The data collected comes from https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip .  This data represents readings taken from users' Samsung smartphones related to signals generated by the device's gyroscope and accelerometer. For more information on the specific fields collected, see the README.txt and features_info.txt files within that downloaded 'UCI HAR Dataset' data set.
###Processing
-------------------------------
The sections that perform the following steps are well documented within the R script, but here are the brief descriptions of how they were implemented:
* Get the data - The data is downloaded from the URL identified above.  This section is commented out.  If you have not downloaded the data set already, this section will need to be uncommented prior to running the script.
* Load the data - This section reads all the Subject, Activity, Features, and actual Train and Test data into local variables.
1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set. - This section unions (rbind) all Subject, Activity, and actual readings from their respective Train and Test data sets.  It the joins these sets (cbind) to create one large datatable ('dt'). 
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. - This section greps for mean() or std() in the column names, and subsets 'dt' on only those columns.
3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set. - This section reads activity_labels.txt and replaces all the activity indexes in the 'dt' datatable with more human readable values by joining (merge) the two sets.
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive activity names. - Using a series of calls to the sub() function using regular expressions, I replace less readable column names with more readable column names.
5. Creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. - Here, I use the melt function to turn the 'dt' data table from a wide table into a tall table, pivoting on subject and activity name.  After this, the table has 4 columns: subject, activity name, variable, and value.  I then group on subject, activity name, and variable with the 'by' notation and average on value using lapply.
* Finally, I write an output file called data.txt.




###Running the script
-------------------------------
* If you have downloaded and unzipped the `UCI HAR Dataset`, then place the `run_analysis.R` file in the directory that contains the `UCI HAR Dataset` directory and run `run_analysis.R` from there.
* If, on the other hand, you have not downloaded and unzipped the `UCI HAR Dataset`, then uncomment the 8 lines underneath the 'GET THE DATA' section of the `run_analysis.R` file.  Then run the `run_analysis.R`.  This will download the data and unzip it prior to beginning processing.


###Output:
-------------------------------
* `data.txt`
